# Expression to TAC Compiler

This is a simple expression to TAC compiler written in Python. It takes an expression as input and generates the quadruple representation of the three address code for the expression.

This compiler have its structure divided into three parts:
1. Scanner: The scanner reads the input expression, makes lexical analysis and generates the token stream for the expression.
2. Parser: The parser reads the tokens generated by the lexer, makes syntactic analysis and generates the abstract syntax tree (AST) for the expression.
3. Compiler: The compiler reads the AST generated by the parser and generates the three address code (TAC) for the expression.

## Grammar

This compiler is based on a simple expression grammar that have '+' and '*' operators, and parentheses to change the precedence of the operators. Due to left recursion, the grammar is modified to remove the left recursion. The modified grammar is as follows:

```
Expr  -> Term Expr'
Expr' -> + Term Expr' | ε
Term  -> Factor Term'
Term' -> * Factor Term' | ε
Factor -> (Expr) | number
```

## How to run

To run the compiler, you need to have Python installed on your system. You can download Python from [here](https://www.python.org/downloads/).

After installing Python, you can run the compiler by running the following command in the terminal:

```
python main.py [input_file] [output_file]
```

The compiler will read the expression from the 'input.txt' file and generate the TAC in the 'output.txt' file.

## Example

For the expression `2 + 3 * 4`, the TAC generated by the compiler is:

```
*, 3, 4, t1
+, 2, t1, t2
```
